---
layout: article
title: UsbIp
key: 20190612
tags:
  - usb
  - cx
lang: zh-Hans
---

# How To Modify Your Gnu/Linux Box To Serve As A USB Over IP Server

There was a long time that I was looking for a way to put away my old co CRM server! But why? Because I had installed a virtualization environment with Xen and all my servers are turned to small VPS on a nice pretty infrastructure. The base point was that the CRM had a USB/Lock and there was no way to take the lock under a virtualized VPS.

The commercial way is to use a USBoverIP hardware which will have a cost at about 100$ for a 2 port USB support, up to 500$ or more ...

Huuum, let's finish the story!

Open Source  ways are always here ;)

There is a good open source project available on the following link:

http://usbip.sourceforge.net/

which turns your Linux Box as a USB server to serve USB devices over IP for both Gnu\Linux and MS-Windows Clients.

## Server Side

### 1- Download the latest package:

http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/usbip/usbip/usbip-win-preview/usbip-win.zip?use_mirror=ignum

**You can check your distro repository for the related package with dependencies.**

Debian based distro such as Ubuntu Karmic imported the USBIP branch to their repository.

Our test platform is Ubuntu Karmic, so all you need to do is:

    usbip:~$ sudo aptitude install usbip

### Then you need to load the following modules to be able to control your USB ports.

    usbip:~$ sudo modprobe usbip
    usbip:~$ sudo modprobe usbip_common_mod

### Now, it's time to start the usbip service as a system Daemon.

    usbip:~$ usbipd -D

### Bind usbip.ko to a usb device to be exportable!
    usbip:~$

 which means that all the things are ok and you just need to choose which port is your favourite port to be shared.

- 1- Attach the usb device to your box.

- 2- Execute the command

    lsusb

### to find the corresponding Vendor/Device ID which is in the form of:

    Bus XXX Device YYY: ID VendorID:DeviceID

**Vendor and Device IDs are four digit codes like the "0c45:63ee" that the first one here (0c45) is for Microdia Co, and the second one (63ee) is the USB device Unic number. For example a USB webcam device.**

Know that to find your favourite hardware ID, you can locate its possition on the BUS. Just match the ID with the result of usbip server check:

    usbip:~$ sudo usbip_bind_driver --list

.

.

.

busid 1-6 (0c45:63ee)
         1-6:1.0 -> uvcvideo
         1-6:1.1 -> uvcvideo
.

.

.

Just find the bus-ID which points to your usb device. Here it is "1-6".

Now, it's time to attach the deivce to the server:

    usbip:~$ sudo usbip_bind_driver --usbip 1-6

As you execute the above command, the system will grab that device from your  OS and will listen for remote clients to serve it for.


## Client Side

### MS Windows Client

Download the zip version:

http://ignum.dl.sourceforge.net/project/usbip/usbip/usbip-win-preview/usbip-win.zip

Extract it...

There are two steps you should do!

#### First:

There is a file "bus.inf" in the zip file, which you should install as a "Generic system device" in your client hardware managment.

#### Second:

Execute the excutable file which is in the zip file:

    path-to-usbip:> usbip.exe -l <server-ip>

The result will show you the bus-ID that you had bound in server.

Huum, it's a light point.

All that is left to do is to attach the device:

    path-to-usbip:> usbip.exe -a <server-ip> USB-ID

**USB-ID is a number in the form of X-Y (in our case it was 1-6).**

Done!!! You will see the new USB device which is detected in your OS.

It's time to enjoy. ;)


### Gnu/Linux Client

 **Test Distro: Ubuntu Karmic**

Like on the server side, all we need to do is use the command:

    $ sudo apt-get install usbip

Then simply load the "vhci-hcd" module with the following command:

    $ sudo modprobe vhci-hcd

Now you are able to query and attach the remote USB device with the following commands:

    $ sudo usbip -l <server-ip>

The above command is able to give you a list of the usb-devices which are available.

    $ sudo usbip -a <server-ip> X-Y

And this one is the magic command which will bring that remote USB device up for you.


### 5 Links

USB/IP Project: http://usbip.sourceforge.net/
Ubuntu: http://www.ubuntu.com/

### 6 注意事项

如果你的电脑安装了Daemon Tools，那是用不了usbip的，卸载了它才行。至于原因，还没有找到。

windows客户端下载usbip_windows_v0.2.0.0_signed.zip（win7）或者usbip_windows_v0.1.0.0_signed（win XP），否则可能会出现莫名其妙的错误。解压了之后，这样安装一个虚拟USB设备（USB/IP Enumerator）：

- win XP：控制面板>添加硬件>下一步>是，我已经连接了硬件>添加新的硬件设备>安装我手动从列表选择的硬件（高级）>系统设备>从磁盘安装>选择USBIPEnum.inf

- win7：设备管理器>操作>添加过时硬件>安装我手动从列表选择的硬件>系统设备>从磁盘安装>选择USBIPEnum.inf

然后打开命令窗口，去到解压到目录，首先查看可用设备，看到类似下面的结果，就是有可用设备。

```shell
 D:\usbip_windows_v0.2.0.0_signed>usbip -l 192.168.1.155
 - 192.168.1.155
     1-1: Z-Star Microelectronics Corp. : ZC0301 WebCam (0ac8:301b)
        : /sys/devices/platform/bcm63xx_ohci.0/usb1/1-1
        : Vendor Specific Class / unknown subclass / unknown protocol (ff/00/00)
        : 0 - Vendor Specific Class / Vendor Specific Subclass / Vendor Specifi
 c Protocol (ff/ff/ff)
```

然后再运行 usbip -a 192.168.1.155 1-1，正常的话，windows就会提示找到USB设备，安装驱动，就看到新的USB设备了。
